it's taken all day to reach a young
orangutan held in a palm oil plantation
and when she finally arrives she's
shocked by what she finds the crate she
was told orangutan was kept in turns out
to be a tiny box barely big enough for
it to turn around put her in another
case because she's gonna die in there
this is she's sitting like totally
crunched down like this on the road
she's gonna be all over the place so I'm
gonna we're gonna have to try and put
her in for the other cage when an
orangutan is confiscated it's usually
best to keep it in the crate in which
its found moving it only adds to its
stress but there's no way Lohner can
leave it in this she's been sitting in
this little cage not being able to stand
upright for two weeks just been given
like cassava roots bananas imagine two
weeks cramped in this tiny box without
even being able to stand the forest you
guys just need to make a letter where
the owner voluntarily handled with the
orangutan to the Forester Department and
then eventually they'll make a letter
that they are giving the orangutan to
the project for safekeeping until it's
ready for release
he's obviously he's had her for two
weeks here and I think decided that was
the right thing to do it's hard for
loner to confront those that have added
to this animal suffering but she has to
stay civil if she makes trouble people
are less likely to get in touch in the
future and more orangutangs could
needlessly die it can't stay in this but
the team never knew they'd need to move
it without one of the medical team to
tranquilize the orangutan they face a
difficult challenge
it's gonna be a rough ride for her she's
gonna be stressed but once we get to the
projects you'll at least this cage is a
good-size case for her but you don't
want them in a to bigger cage either
because they're trash around a lot but
that case that she's in is just that is
just the worst I've seen for a long time
for such a big animal to keep them in
there
she can't even when she sits up she
can't even keep her neck straight
transferring her to a larger crate
without her escaping will be difficult
if she disappears into the night they
could lose her and with that any hope of
offering her a better future